README.md, before:

# iptables_xt_recent_parser
Used for converting jiffies from iptables xt_recent into timestamps.

An example of xt_recent log can be like this, where only 2 syn connections in 20 seconds are allowed:

````
export IPT=iptables
export SSH_PORT=22
export HITCOUNT=3 # 2 syn connection (<3)
export SECONDS=20 # in 20 seconds are allowed


# --rcheck: Check if the source address of the packet is  currently  in  the list.
# --update: Like  --rcheck,  except it will update the "last seen" timestamp if it matches.

$IPT -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport $SSH_PORT -m state --state NEW -m recent --set --name sshguys --rsource
$IPT -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport $SSH_PORT -m state  --state NEW  -m recent --rcheck --seconds $SECONDS --hitcount $HITCOUNT --rttl --name sshguys --rsource -j LOG --log-prefix "BLOCKED SSH (brute force)" --log-level 4 -m limit --limit 1/minute --limit-burst 5
$IPT -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport $SSH_PORT -m recent --rcheck --seconds $SECONDS --hitcount $HITCOUNT --rttl --name sshguys --rsource -j REJECT --reject-with tcp-reset
$IPT -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport $SSH_PORT -m recent --update --seconds $SECONDS --hitcount $HITCOUNT --rttl --name sshguys --rsource -j REJECT --reject-with tcp-reset
$IPT -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport $SSH_PORT -m state --state NEW,ESTABLISHED  -j ACCEPT
````

In syslog we can see blocked connections :

````
Mar 26 14:06:41 cloudone-cla kernel: [5339977.637052] BLOCKED SSH (brute force)IN=eth0 OUT= MAC=00:50:56:92:00:04:00:14:c2:61:09:be:08:00 SRC=95.142.177.153 DST=160.97.104.18 LEN=60 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=50 ID=42489 DF PROTO=TCP SPT=44636 DPT=22 WINDOW=29200 RES=0x00 SYN URGP=0
````

### Usage
````
XT_RECENT python parser
<giuseppe.demarco@unical.it>

usage: ipt_recents [-h] [-f F] [-txt] [-csv]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  -f F        custom xt_recent path, default if omitted is:
              /proc/net/xt_recent/DEFAULT
  -txt        print it in human readable format
  -csv        print it in CSV format
````

### Output
````
Standard readable view:
190.102.72.44, last seen: 2017-03-26 13:31:55 after 1 connections
187.112.185.153, last seen: 2017-03-26 13:28:07 after 2 connections
95.142.177.153, last seen: 2017-03-26 13:27:31 after 12 connections

CSV view:
ip_src;last_seen;connections;deltas_mean;delta_seconds
190.102.72.44;2017-03-26 13:31:55.462201;1;0;
187.112.185.153;2017-03-26 13:28:07.168819;2;0.0;0
95.142.177.153;2017-03-26 13:27:31.976049;12;1.7272727272727273;1,1,1,1,1,1,2,3,3,1,4

````

In CSV format there are time delta mean and time delta in seconds, for every attempts.

### Requirements

- Python3

Commit message:

simple tweak to show time of 1st conn, and count of ip addrs.

README.md, after:

# iptables_xt_recent_parser

With simple tweak, now it shows 

1. Time of 1st connections in records, it's not the earliest though, since only the last 20 will be kept.
2. Count of the ip addrs in the table in case someone uses ```--reap``` to clean the table periodically and that's something should be known. 

````
...
100.100.112.90, last seen: 2023-09-09 20:26:01 after 20 conns, 1st (in records): 2023-09-09 01:26:01
100.100.32.202, last seen: 2023-09-09 21:16:01 after 20 conns, 1st (in records): 2023-09-09 02:16:00
100.100.14.161, last seen: 2023-09-09 21:18:01 after 20 conns, 1st (in records): 2023-09-09 02:18:01

Stat: 16 ip addrs in total.
````

----

## Original README

Used for converting jiffies from iptables xt_recent into timestamps.

An example of xt_recent log can be like this, where only 2 syn connections in 20 seconds are allowed:

````
export IPT=iptables
export SSH_PORT=22
export HITCOUNT=3 # 2 syn connection (<3)
export SECONDS=20 # in 20 seconds are allowed


# --rcheck: Check if the source address of the packet is  currently  in  the list.
# --update: Like  --rcheck,  except it will update the "last seen" timestamp if it matches.

$IPT -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport $SSH_PORT -m state --state NEW -m recent --set --name sshguys --rsource
$IPT -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport $SSH_PORT -m state  --state NEW  -m recent --rcheck --seconds $SECONDS --hitcount $HITCOUNT --rttl --name sshguys --rsource -j LOG --log-prefix "BLOCKED SSH (brute force)" --log-level 4 -m limit --limit 1/minute --limit-burst 5
$IPT -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport $SSH_PORT -m recent --rcheck --seconds $SECONDS --hitcount $HITCOUNT --rttl --name sshguys --rsource -j REJECT --reject-with tcp-reset
$IPT -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport $SSH_PORT -m recent --update --seconds $SECONDS --hitcount $HITCOUNT --rttl --name sshguys --rsource -j REJECT --reject-with tcp-reset
$IPT -A INPUT -p tcp -m tcp --dport $SSH_PORT -m state --state NEW,ESTABLISHED  -j ACCEPT
````

In syslog we can see blocked connections :

````
Mar 26 14:06:41 cloudone-cla kernel: [5339977.637052] BLOCKED SSH (brute force)IN=eth0 OUT= MAC=00:50:56:92:00:04:00:14:c2:61:09:be:08:00 SRC=95.142.177.153 DST=160.97.104.18 LEN=60 TOS=0x00 PREC=0x00 TTL=50 ID=42489 DF PROTO=TCP SPT=44636 DPT=22 WINDOW=29200 RES=0x00 SYN URGP=0
````

### Usage
````
XT_RECENT python parser
<giuseppe.demarco@unical.it>

usage: ipt_recents [-h] [-f F] [-txt] [-csv]

optional arguments:
  -h, --help  show this help message and exit
  -f F        custom xt_recent path, default if omitted is:
              /proc/net/xt_recent/DEFAULT
  -txt        print it in human readable format
  -csv        print it in CSV format
````

### Output
````
Standard readable view:
190.102.72.44, last seen: 2017-03-26 13:31:55 after 1 connections
187.112.185.153, last seen: 2017-03-26 13:28:07 after 2 connections
95.142.177.153, last seen: 2017-03-26 13:27:31 after 12 connections

CSV view:
ip_src;last_seen;connections;deltas_mean;delta_seconds
190.102.72.44;2017-03-26 13:31:55.462201;1;0;
187.112.185.153;2017-03-26 13:28:07.168819;2;0.0;0
95.142.177.153;2017-03-26 13:27:31.976049;12;1.7272727272727273;1,1,1,1,1,1,2,3,3,1,4

````

In CSV format there are time delta mean and time delta in seconds, for every attempts.

### Requirements

- Python3
